In the example application we built thus far, we haven't used any directives besides components which are
directives, that's important but we haven't used any other directives,
no built-in directives.
Now let's say one thing we want to do is we only want to show this server was created text here,
there is no need to have this
no server was created text to be displayed.
So it would be nice if we could conditionally show this message
and for that, we need some help,
we can use a directive shipping with Angular, the ngIf directive.
Now it works like an if statement
and to be precise, it works like this. In our servers component here where we output the server creation
status,
I will comment this out so that we can still reference this code but now I will add a new paragraph
where I simply say server was created, server name is bind my server name.
Now with this in place, it will still work
but now we always see with every keystroke how we change this server name, not really what I want,
instead I want to output it as soon as we click this button here.
So what I can do is I can add a directive here
and as I said, typically directives are added by using an attribute selector
and pretty much all the built-in directives use that selector, ngIf does and then ngIf is added by
adding a star,
this is important,
ngIf. The star is required because ngIf is a structural directive which means it changes the structure
of our DOM, it either adds this element or it doesn't add it.
So that's just some extra information for Angular,
the directive itself is just ngIf but the star is required,
without it, it will not work correctly.
So ngIf and then we can set up our conditions here between the quotation marks. For ngIf,
this has to be
any expression returning true or false,
deciding whether this should be added or not.
So here it would make sense to add a new property which we name serverCreated and set it to false and
we set this to true once the button is clicked,
so here in onCreateServer which is triggered when the button is clicked, here we set serverCreated equal
to true, like that.
Now with this, we can go back to our template and simply bind ngIf to serverCreated
and again this could also call a method which returns true or false
or directly perform the check between the quotation marks,
anything which returns true or false.
Now with this if we save this, what you see is that there is no text
but if I name this Testserver 2 and click the button, now the text is added here
and the interesting thing is if I reload the app and we inspect our DOM here, you'll see here that's our app server
component, above that is the button
but if I click this button, a new element was entered here,
the paragraph and here you see kind of the hook which Angular created to know where this should be entered.
But the important thing is it's really added or removed to or from the DOM,
it's not there all the time, it's not hidden, it's just not there
which is super important to understand.
So that's ngIf, again the star at the beginning indicates that this is a structural directive, really
changing the DOM as you just saw.